# Stable Image Ultra

Our most advanced text to image generation service, Stable Image Ultra creates the highest quality images with unprecedented prompt understanding. Ultra excels in typography, complex compositions, dynamic lighting, vibrant hues, and overall cohesion and structure of an art piece. Made from the most advanced models, including Stable Diffusion 3.5, Ultra offers the best of the Stable Diffusion ecosystem.

## How to use
Please invoke this endpoint with a POST request.

The headers of the request must include an API key in the authorization field. The body of the request must be multipart/form-data. The accept header should be set to one of the following:

image/* to receive the image in the format specified by the output_format parameter.
application/json to receive the image in the format specified by the output_format parameter, but encoded to base64 in a JSON response.
The only required parameter is the prompt field, which should contain the text prompt for the image generation.

The body of the request should include:
- prompt - text to generate the image from

The body may optionally include:
- image - the image to use as the starting point for the generation
- strength - controls how much influence the image parameter has on the output image
- aspect_ratio - the aspect ratio of the output image
- negative_prompt - keywords of what you do not wish to see in the output image
- seed - the randomness seed to use for the generation
- output_format - the format of the output image
> Note: for the full list of optional parameters, please see the request schema below.

## Output
The resolution of the generated image will be 1 megapixel. The default resolution is 1024x1024.

## Credits
The Ultra service uses 8 credits per successful result. You will not be charged for failed results.

## Header Parameters
- authorization (required): string non-empty
*Your Stability API key, used to authenticate your requests. Although you may have multiple keys in your account, you should use the same key for all requests to this API.*
- content-type (required): string non-empty
-- Example: multipart/form-data
*The content type of the request body. Do not manually specify this header; your HTTP client library will automatically include the appropriate boundary parameter.*
- accept: string
-- Default: image/* 
-- Enum: application/json image/*
*Specify image/* to receive the bytes of the image directly. Otherwise specify application/json to receive the image as base64 encoded JSON.*
- stability-client-id: string (StabilityClientID) <= 256 characters
-- Example: my-awesome-app
*The name of your application, used to help us communicate app-specific debugging or moderation issues to you.*
- stability-client-user-id: string (StabilityClientUserID) <= 256 characters
-- Example: DiscordUser#9999
*A unique identifier for your end user. Used to help us communicate user-specific debugging or moderation issues to you. Feel free to obfuscate this value to protect user privacy.*
- stability-client-version: string (StabilityClientVersion) <= 256 characters
-- Example: 1.2.1
*The version of your application, used to help us communicate version-specific debugging or moderation issues to you.*

## Request Body schema: multipart/form-data
- prompt (required): string [ 1 .. 10000 ] characters
*What you wish to see in the output image. A strong, descriptive prompt that clearly defines elements, colors, and subjects will lead to better results.*
*To control the weight of a given word use the format (word:weight), where word is the word you'd like to control the weight of and weight is a value between 0 and 1. For example: The sky was a crisp (blue:0.3) and (green:0.8) would convey a sky that was blue and green, but more green than blue.*
- negative_prompt: string <= 10000 characters
*A blurb of text describing what you do not wish to see in the output image. This is an advanced feature.*
- aspect_ratio: string
-- Default: 1:1
-- Enum: 16:9 1:1 21:9 2:3 3:2 4:5 5:4 9:16 9:21
*Controls the aspect ratio of the generated image.*
- seed: number [ 0 .. 4294967294 ]
-- Default: 0
*A specific value that is used to guide the 'randomness' of the generation. (Omit this parameter or pass 0 to use a random seed.)*
- output_format: string
-- Default: png
-- Enum: jpeg png webp
*Dictates the content-type of the generated image.*
- image: string <binary>
*The image to use as the starting point for the generation.*
```
Important: The strength parameter is required when image is provided.
Supported Formats:
- jpeg
- png
- webp

Validation Rules:
- Width must be between 64 and 16,384 pixels
- Height must be between 64 and 16,384 pixels
- Total pixel count must be at least 4,096 pixels
```
- style_preset: string
-- Enum: 3d-model analog-film anime cinematic comic-book digital-art enhance fantasy-art isometric line-art low-poly modeling-compound neon-punk origami photographic pixel-art tile-texture
*Guides the image model towards a particular style.*
- strength: number [ 0 .. 1 ]
*Sometimes referred to as denoising, this parameter controls how much influence the image parameter has on the generated image. A value of 0 would yield an image that is identical to the input. A value of 1 would be as if you passed in no image at all.*
*Important: This parameter is required when image is provided.*

## Request Sample (cURL)
```
curl -f -sS "https://api.stability.ai/v2beta/stable-image/generate/ultra" \
  -H "authorization: Bearer sk-MYAPIKEY" \
  -H "accept: image/*" \
  -F prompt="Lighthouse on a cliff overlooking the ocean" \
  -F output_format="webp" \
  -o "./lighthouse.webp"
```

## Responses

### 200 Generation was successful

#### Response Headers
x-request-id: string
*A unique identifier for this request.*
- content-type: string
```
Examples:
image/jpeg - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/jpeg - base64 encoded
image/png - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/png - base64 encoded
image/webp - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/webp - base64 encoded
```
*The format of the generated image.*
*To receive the bytes of the image directly, specify image/* in the accept header. To receive the bytes base64 encoded inside of a JSON payload, specify application/json.*
- finish-reason: string
-- Enum: CONTENT_FILTERED SUCCESS
*Indicates the reason the generation finished.*
-- SUCCESS = successful generation.
-- CONTENT_FILTERED = successful generation, however the output violated our content moderation policy and has been blurred as a result.
*NOTE: This header is absent on JSON encoded responses because it is present in the body as finish_reason.*
- seed: string
-- Example: "343940597"
*The seed used as random noise for this generation.*
*NOTE: This header is absent on JSON encoded responses because it is present in the body as seed.*

#### Response Schema
The finish-reason and seed will be present as headers.

##### image/jpeg - image/png - image/webp
string <binary> The bytes of the generated image.

##### application/json; type=image/jpeg - application/json; type=image/png - application/json; type=image/webp
- image (required): string
*The generated image, encoded to base64.*
- finish_reason (required): string
-- Enum: CONTENT_FILTERED SUCCESS
*The reason the generation finished.*
```
SUCCESS = successful generation.
CONTENT_FILTERED = successful generation, however the output violated our content moderation policy and has been blurred as a result.
```
- seed: number [ 0 .. 4294967294 ]
-- Default: 0
The seed used as random noise for this generation.*

### 400 Invalid parameter(s), see the errors field for details.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 403 Your request was flagged by our content moderation system.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
-- Value: content_moderation
*Our content moderation system has flagged some part of your request and subsequently denied it. You were not charged for this request. While this may at times be frustrating, it is necessary to maintain the integrity of our platform and ensure a safe experience for all users.*
*If you would like to provide feedback, please use the Support Form.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 413 Your request was larger than 10MiB.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 422 Your request was well-formed, but rejected. See the errors field for details.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*