# Stable Diffusion 3.5
Generate using Stable Diffusion 3.5 models, Stability AI latest base model:

- Stable Diffusion 3.5 Large: At 8 billion parameters, with superior quality and prompt adherence, this base model is the most powerful in the Stable Diffusion family. This model is ideal for professional use cases at 1 megapixel resolution.

- Stable Diffusion 3.5 Large Turbo: A distilled version of Stable Diffusion 3.5 Large. SD3.5 Large Turbo generates high-quality images with exceptional prompt adherence in just 4 steps, making it considerably faster than Stable Diffusion 3.5 Large.

- Stable Diffusion 3.5 Medium: With 2.5 billion parameters, the model delivers an optimal balance between prompt accuracy and image quality, making it an efficient choice for fast high-performance image generation.

- Stable Diffusion 3.5 Flash: A distilled version of Stable Diffusion 3.5 Medium. SD3.5 Flash generates high-quality images with a 4 step process instead of 40, making it faster than Stable Diffusion 3.5 Medium.

Read more about the model capabilities here: https://stability.ai/news/introducing-stable-diffusion-3-5

As of April 17, 2025, we have deprecated the Stable Diffusion 3.0 APIs and will be automatically re-routing calls to Stable Diffusion 3.0 models to Stable Diffusion 3.5 APIs at no extra cost. You can read more in the release notes.

## How to use
Please invoke this endpoint with a POST request.

The headers of the request must include an API key in the authorization field. The body of the request must be multipart/form-data. The accept header should be set to one of the following:
- image/* to receive the image in the format specified by the output_format parameter.
- application/json to receive the image encoded as base64 in a JSON response.

### Generating with a prompt
Commonly referred to as text-to-image, this mode generates an image from text alone. While the only required parameter is the prompt, it also supports an aspect_ratio parameter which can be used to control the aspect ratio of the generated image.

### Generating with a prompt and an image
Commonly referred to as image-to-image, this mode also generates an image from text but uses an existing image as the starting point. The required parameters are:
- prompt - text to generate the image from
- image - the image to use as the starting point for the generation
- strength - controls how much influence the image parameter has on the output image
- mode - must be set to image-to-image
Note: maximum request size is 10MiB.

### Optional Parameters:
Both modes support the following optional parameters:
- model - the model to use (SD 3.5 Large, SD 3.5 Large Turbo, SD 3.5 Medium, SD 3.5 Flash)
- output_format - the format of the output image
- seed - the randomness seed to use for the generation
- negative_prompt - keywords of what you do not wish to see in the output image
- cfg_scale - controls how strictly the diffusion process adheres to the prompt text
- style_preset - guides the image model towards a particular style
Note: for more details about these parameters please see the request schema below.

## Output
The resolution of the generated image will be 1MP. The default resolution is 1024x1024.

## Credits
SD 3.5 Large: Flat rate of 6.5 credits per successful generation.
SD 3.5 Large Turbo: Flat rate of 4 credits per successful generation.
SD 3.5 Medium: Flat rate of 3.5 credits per successful generation.
SD 3.5 Flash: Flat rate of 2.5 credits per successful generation.
As always, you will not be charged for failed generations.

## Sample Request (cURL)
```
curl -f -sS "https://api.stability.ai/v2beta/stable-image/generate/sd3" \
  -H "authorization: Bearer sk-MYAPIKEY" \
  -H "accept: image/*" \
  -F prompt="Lighthouse on a cliff overlooking the ocean" \
  -F output_format="jpeg" \
  -o "./lighthouse.jpeg"
```

## Header Parameters
- authorization (required): string non-empty
*Your Stability API key, used to authenticate your requests. Although you may have multiple keys in your account, you should use the same key for all requests to this API.*
- content-type (required): string non-empty
-- Example: multipart/form-data
*The content type of the request body. Do not manually specify this header; your HTTP client library will automatically include the appropriate boundary parameter.*
- accept: string
-- Default: image/*
-- Enum: application/json image/*
*Specify image/* to receive the bytes of the image directly. Otherwise specify application/json to receive the image as base64 encoded JSON.*
- stability-client-id: string (StabilityClientID) <= 256 characters
-- Example: my-awesome-app
*The name of your application, used to help us communicate app-specific debugging or moderation issues to you.*
- stability-client-user-id: string (StabilityClientUserID) <= 256 characters
-- Example: DiscordUser#9999
*A unique identifier for your end user. Used to help us communicate user-specific debugging or moderation issues to you. Feel free to obfuscate this value to protect user privacy.*
- stability-client-version: string (StabilityClientVersion) <= 256 characters
-- Example: 1.2.1
*The version of your application, used to help us communicate version-specific debugging or moderation issues to you.**

## Request Body schema: multipart/form-data
- prompt (required): string [ 1 .. 10000 ] characters
*What you wish to see in the output image. A strong, descriptive prompt that clearly defines elements, colors, and subjects will lead to better results.*
- mode: string (GenerationMode)
-- Default: text-to-image
-- Enum: image-to-image text-to-image
*Controls whether this is a text-to-image or image-to-image generation, which affects which parameters are required:*
```
text-to-image requires only the prompt parameter
image-to-image requires the prompt, image, and strength parameters
```
- image: string <binary>
*The image to use as the starting point for the generation.*
```
Supported formats:
- jpeg
- png
- webp
Supported dimensions:
- Every side must be at least 64 pixels
- Important: This parameter is only valid for image-to-image requests.
```
- strength: number [ 0 .. 1 ]
*Sometimes referred to as denoising, this parameter controls how much influence the image parameter has on the generated image. A value of 0 would yield an image that is identical to the input. A value of 1 would be as if you passed in no image at all.*
*Important: This parameter is only valid for image-to-image requests. For SD 3.5 Flash, the best results for image-to-image generation are achieved with a strength between .94 - .97.*
- aspect_ratio: string
-- Default: 1:1
-- Enum: 16:9 1:1 21:9 2:3 3:2 4:5 5:4 9:16 9:21
*Controls the aspect ratio of the generated image. Defaults to 1:1.*
*Important: This parameter is only valid for text-to-image requests.*
- model: string
-- Default: sd3.5-large
-- Enum: sd3.5-large sd3.5-large-turbo sd3.5-medium
*The model to use for generation.*
```
sd3.5-large requires 6.5 credits per generation
sd3.5-large-turbo requires 4 credits per generation
sd3.5-medium requires 3.5 credits per generation
sd3.5-flash requires 2.5 credits per generation
As of the April 17, 2025, sd3-large, sd3-large-turbo and sd3-medium are re-routed to their sd3.5-[model version] equivalent, at the same price.
```
- seed: number [ 0 .. 4294967294 ]
-- Default: 0
*A specific value that is used to guide the 'randomness' of the generation. (Omit this parameter or pass 0 to use a random seed.)*
- output_format: string
-- Default: png
-- Enum: jpeg png webp
*Dictates the content-type of the generated image.*
- style_preset: string
-- Enum: 3d-model analog-film anime cinematic comic-book digital-art enhance fantasy-art isometric line-art low-poly modeling-compound neon-punk origami photographic pixel-art tile-texture
Guides the image model towards a particular style.
- negative_prompt: string <= 10000 characters
*Keywords of what you do not wish to see in the output image. This is an advanced feature.*
- cfg_scale: number [ 1 .. 10 ]
*How strictly the diffusion process adheres to the prompt text (higher values keep your image closer to your prompt). The Large and Medium models use a default of 4. The Turbo and Flash model uses a default of 1.*

## Responses

### 200 Generation was successful.

#### Response Headers
- x-request-id: string
*A unique identifier for this request.*
- content-type: string
```
Examples:
image/png - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/png - base64 encoded
image/jpeg - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/jpeg - base64 encoded
image/webp - raw bytes
application/json; type=image/webp - base64 encoded
```
*The format of the generated image.*
*To receive the bytes of the image directly, specify image/* in the accept header. To receive the bytes base64 encoded inside of a JSON payload, specify application/json.*
- finish-reason: string
-- Enum: CONTENT_FILTERED SUCCESS
*Indicates the reason the generation finished.*
```
SUCCESS = successful generation.
CONTENT_FILTERED = successful generation, however the output violated our content moderation policy and has been blurred as a result.
```
*NOTE: This header is absent on JSON encoded responses because it is present in the body as finish_reason.*
- seed: string
-- Example: "343940597"
*The seed used as random noise for this generation.*
-NOTE: This header is absent on JSON encoded responses because it is present in the body as seed.*

#### Response Schema: 
The finish-reason and seed will be present as headers.

##### image/png - image/jpeg -- image/webp
- string <binary>
*The bytes of the generated image.*

##### application/json; type=image/png - application/json; type=image/jpeg - application/json; type=image/webp
- image (required): string
*The generated image, encoded to base64.*
- finish_reason (required): string
-- Enum: CONTENT_FILTERED SUCCESS
*The reason the generation finished.*
```
SUCCESS = successful generation.
CONTENT_FILTERED = successful generation, however the output violated our content moderation policy and has been blurred as a result.
```
- seed: number [ 0 .. 4294967294 ]
-- Default: 0
*The seed used as random noise for this generation.*

### 400 Invalid parameter(s), see the errors field for details.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 403 Your request was flagged by our content moderation system.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
-- Value: content_moderation
```
Our content moderation system has flagged some part of your request and subsequently denied it. You were not charged for this request. While this may at times be frustrating, it is necessary to maintain the integrity of our platform and ensure a safe experience for all users.
If you would like to provide feedback, please use the Support Form.
```
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 422 Your request was well-formed, but rejected. See the errors field for details.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 429 You have made more than 150 requests in 10 seconds.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*

### 500 An internal error occurred. If the problem persists contact support.

#### Response Schema: application/json
- id (required): string non-empty
*A unique identifier associated with this error. Please include this in any support tickets you file, as it will greatly assist us in diagnosing the root cause of the problem.*
- name (required): string non-empty
*Short-hand name for an error, useful for discriminating between errors with the same status code.*
- errors (required): Array of strings non-empty
*One or more error messages indicating what went wrong.*